Now that we've seen what makes up a slice,
that it is just a bunch of smaller pieces.
And we can kind of explore how
to then also make a slice and
then see that there are pieces that
we could use anywhere as well, right?
And I think I have a Belabor the point of
any piece of this is accessible to you.
Let's actually kind of see
a little bit more of this through.
So we've got this here now.
And I would like to theoretically
hook it up to a store.
That seems like a reasonable thing to do.
The other kind of nice
batteries included part of this
is that previously you
had Redux's createStore.
I mean,
you still have Redux's createStore.
And then there was a set of things
that one needed to do, okay?
I mentioned this before.
We wanna hook up the Redux developer
tools, well, that's a step, right?
And there are some other helpful pieces.
There's middleware out there that makes
sure that you're actually making stuff
immutable in development only.
There is middleware out there like,
I would like to make some kind of
asynchronous request at some point ever,
cuz I've heard that's a thing
that we do in websites.
I wanna make sure that
the data I'm storing and
everything is serializable, right?
So it's not class instances,
it's just like JavaScript objects
that can be converted to JSON.
So a bunch of just common things that you
would have to do as a rite of passage
every time, we basically kinda get for
free at this point.
So I'm gonna make a store file.
And I'm gonna keep this separate for
reasons that we will see in a second.
I'll tell you the kind of general theme
for some of the separate files I'm making.
Could you put some of this in index.tsx?
Yes.
Later on we're gonna
make some custom hooks.
Could you put them in this file?
Yes.
Generally speaking though, depending on
what build your tool you're using and
what version of that build tool you're
using, you will always start dancing as
soon as you put too much stuff in
one file and start requiring it.
Especially at this early bootstrapping
stage of your application,
you will play with the circular
dependency like roulette.
And at one point something might break.
So separating the stuff out in
the files occasionally like
breaking it apart usually makes either A,
not getting into a situation easier or
B, at least triaging what
the issue was a little bit easier.
So could you put in these files?
Yes.
Should you?
Maybe not.
Are you immediately gonna
be in trouble if you do?
Depends on the build tool and
the version of the build tool and
other complexity issues as well.
But especially since we're live coding
today, I'm gonna play a little bit safe.
And so with breaking stuff
into small well-defined files,
that's the way things are responsible.
How about that?
So we can put this out there.
We will need to export some stuff
from our slice in a second.
But let's create the basics of the store.
One of the major differences from how we
might do it in just regular old Redux.
And if you have it set up in regular
old Redux, that's fine, leave it.
You can, that's absolutely acceptable.
This is just kind of some of the advanced
features that we can lean into.
So we can bring in and we say from
@redux-toolkit, which if you don't have
Redux as a dependency, this will have
everything that Redux has in it.
Like bind action creators, all those
things are in this library as well.
So it's your choice, but
here we have configure store.
Maybe if I write import I'll actually get,
I'm now so top I autocomplete that if
it doesn't autocomplete, I wonder what
I've done wrong, which is good, right?
It's helping me on more than one way.
So we've got that in place.
And configure store,
we can create a store.
We call it, it's got a slightly
different signature than create store
which is in Redux normally, and
it will take a reducer object, right?
And so normally, you see your first
Redux app ever it's like yeah,
yeah just pass the reducer
function to create store.
As like then you have to pull out combined
reducers when it is more than one reducer
and you put that all together and
usually have a separate file,
when you're exporting which reducers
are you never using, so on and so forth.
This just does a for
you out of the box, right?
And so we'll start with that.
I'm gonna make sure that I've
exported everything that I need here.
I've exported literally nothing.
So we'll say export contest slice,
I'm actually gonna make
that my default export.
And I'll show you one in a second.
Export default.
Test slice.
There are other things on
here that I need and want and
a lot of times I will also then export
them separately because it's just
easier to do auto import and
stuff like that.
And it's also clear what exactly I have.
So if we look on task slice, see,
you can see I've got
those pieces in there.
But I can also say let's
do export const task slice,
const, will call it
actually tasks reducer.
So these are the things that are on
that test slice object, right?
The name you can guess what that one is
It's the same property that I passed in.
Reducer is the actual
reducer that we created.
Just as when we used create
reducer earlier by itself.
Guess what?
It's a normal reducer.
Nothing special about it.
It's just made for
you with everything ready to go.
The other thing that I will
usually do is I will say, And
then I will pull off just like
in easier to import honestly.
I'll say I'll pull off
the different action names, so
I'll say test slice dot actions.
And on there as you can see when I use
the destructuring object over here.
We've got add task,
we've got remove task, and
they are correctly typed,
with everything ready to go.
So the things that we did
kind of piecemeal earlier.
If you do want them together, this is
a regular set of things that you can use,
existing infrastructure,
so on and so forth.
So I've got all of that, so
now that I'm gonna save this file.
We'll go into our store, and simply say,
Now my task reducer is wired up to
the store ready to rock and roll.
Awesome, and
let's just export default this.
Why we kept this in a separate file
because I have to play some import
games in a second nd we'll see why and
it will make life a lot easier for us.
But let's follow the thread for
a second here.
We're gonna keep the context API
right now cuz I haven't totally
swapped out both the users and
the tasks that is providing.
When those both gets swapped out you
could definitely get rid of it but for
now we'll just leave it in there.
But we'll also put our provider,
we're still in the process of setting up.
So we can pull all of this in.
And so the provider is actually just
the regular provider you would ever use
from react Redux.
And the store is now the store
that we've just created.
So pull those both in and
now I can simply wrap my application as I
have done more times than I care to admit.
Awesome.
I hope that closing one every time.
Cool.
So we've got that all in there.
That is wired up as we
would kinda come to expect.
Now if it comes down to like
adding the action to our form,
we wanna create a new task or
anything along those lines.
We can see that in the task I have
access to the actions in the store.
Theoretically I've got React Redux, so
I've got used dispatch, I've got used
selector all the normal stuff in the hooks
parlance of our times is ready to go.
I think at this point yes.
React Redux right now still supports
the map dispatch to props and
map state to props that were for
years and years and
years were the facto way
that you do everything.
Especially with concurrent react and
hooks and
stuff that code exists, but
the recommendation at this point is to use
the hooks that come from
React Redux as well.
So we'll kinda have those and
we'll use those as well.
And now we go up to create task.
Okay, there's no like submitting
of this form right now.
So we can say, So useDispatch and
that will give us our dispatch from our
store that is provided by the provider.
And we can actually just use this like
a normal action creator at this point.
So we can go ahead and
in our on submit, we can just say,
Dispatch addTask, and that will have,
you can see I automatically will get
what are the details of the task.
Now we're gonna have a slight problem here
that maybe you already saw, but maybe not.
Where we'll say that the task,
we really only have I guess
the title at this point, right?
So we'll say that the title
is new test title.
>> Is this what would replace
map dispatch to props?
>> Yeah.
If you're using map to set straps
that is still in React Redux,
it is still supported.
There are questions as like
a lot of this was rewritten for
those hooks to support some
of the new react 18 features.
It's still totally usable.
In fact, one of the nice things about that
Higher-order component is that it will do
some of the kind of, memorization of the
props and not rear-ender the component.
It has some nice features to it as well.
But yes, in modern versions of
React Redux, you also have a used selector
hook which we'll see momentarily, and
you also have this use dispatch hook
which will give you access to
the store.dispatch wherever you need it.
>> What was the one you said
replace the map state to props?
>> Use selector.
>> Selector, okay.
>> I will have
to pull that one out momentarily.
So you will see it.
But first, all of my awesome,
like I got all this typing for free.
It is true that I have a small problem
here that I have to solve for, which is,
it's saying, hey you told me
we're gonna put tasks on and
I don't necessarily have all the
information ready to go here for a task,
and so I do need to provide some
of the better types to my action.
Because all that free TypeScript support
turns out is working, [LAUGH] right?
And so that gives me some stuff that
I need to do to solve for that.